>> ThePrimeagen: So
I love reinventing the Wheel.
It's my favorite pastime.
Every single day of my life,
if I can spend five to 10 to 20 minutes
reinventing some wheel, it makes me happy.
A lot of it just comes down to just
appreciating what it takes to make
software.
Every now and then you see this a lot,
especially with like younger or
newer folks into the industry.
Is they'll be like,
why can't they just do this, all right?
And their head software simple, still.
It still has this veneer that it's
everything is accomplishable,
very easy and very quick, and so
you just don't have that fundamental
appreciation of how difficult it was.
It sounds so easy in principle and
in reality, it should be simple.
You have a bit of memory.
You need to display it.
That's all it should be.
But we've convinced ourselves to
wrap everything in configuration and
abstractions that it makes things
actually really hard to do,
which should seem simple.
So I think to the layman person,
things feel like they should be easy and
often they're very hard.
So reinventing the wheel helps cure you
of that sickness over, and over, and
over again.
So I highly recommend that you do that.
And you also learn a lot about
the topic along the way, right?
Whatever you're reinventing, you will
learn more about you will become more of
an expert on it, and those really kind of
hazy boxes that you have drawn in your
head will become much more concrete, and
you'll understand what's inside of them.
And you'll also become a better engineer,
because you'll be able to gauge what it
takes to build something more and more
accurately, because I think that you'll
start seeing all these weird corner
cases that will inevitably come up.
And it's easier for you to have that in
your head loaded up because you've already
solved a bunch of stuff.
Like a really great exercise is
building HTTP 1.0 or 1.1 from TCP.
Not hard.
Most of it's really, really simple, but
then you'll realize that there's like,
900 edge cases, and
that's where for all the time, and
that's what makes making that
HTTP server really complicated.
And you realize,
this is why all this stuff is complicated,
just getting the message is simple,
but we have all this legacy and
crap in the way that makes us have
to do all these strange things.
And now look at where we're at, and
then you just gain a whole
new appreciation for things.
All right, so my current bash setup,
this is obviously subject to change
about once a year to twice or
once every two years, I try to rethink or
readjust or make my stuff better.
I never again want to be that meme of
the continual pursuit of perfection.
I don't have to have things be perfect.
I don't really care if things are perfect.
I just want them good enough.
And I want them to just take
care of the 98% of problems.
Is I'm fine doing things manually.
If it's rare,
I try never to automate the rarities.
I try to automate the everyday.
When I want to go to my editor,
I want that to be fast.
When I want to go back to my browser,
I don't want those little things to be
fast that are just that just take way too
much effort and
give you very little of anything.
All right, so we're gonna set some goals.
I wanna be able to bootstrap my machine
that I'll purchase in the future that is
Ubuntu based.
Now you guys can make it Mac based or
Windows based.
I'm not sure what Windows uses, any files.
I don't know how they work
over their PowerShell.
I hear PowerShell a lot, and so
I'm not gonna even try to be clever.
Not gonna try to do multi OS style.
But it's not hard when it comes to bash,
right?
You just Have two scripts, one that does
brew install, one does a bash install.
You don't have to abstract it
into some sort of abstract
installer that does platform independent,
you're just reinventing Ansible
if you go down that route.
Just keep things simple.
If I need a Mac install script, I'm
just gonna create a Mac install version.
I just don't use Mac right now and I'm
gonna keep on going as long as I can until
I'm forced to use some other operating
system at some point in my life.
I wanna be able to install
my favorite libraries.
I want to bring down repos that I
actively maintain because there's just
a set of repos that I prefer to just
have locally right away on any machine.
I want to be able to build NeoVim
from source, I love NeoVim.
I wanna be able to use all
the tools that I just like.
I want them available and I wanna copy.
My .files over to my environment.
I like them separated.
I no longer like to use
symlinks to my dot files.
I just like the process of this
is where I'm going to edit it.
So when I go there,
I intentionally edit it.
I can make sure I commit it.
I can make sure everything's up to date.
And then I can make sure
everything's copied over and
everything's good cuz or else,
whenever it's really loosey-goosey like
that, I tend to forget the little things.
I don't navigate to a directory.
I don't have all those things set up.
And then, boom,
I forgot I made all these updates.
And then the updates
become kind of out there.
Or even worse, I create a little file
that I need somewhere on my system.
And it's not a part of
the symlink category group.
And it just never makes it
into Into my dot files,
because I don't have that
kind of habit built in.
So I just prefer the copy approach.
I just think it's the best that's just me.
I'm gonna keep on doing it.
That's that.
I just really just want it all.
I just want to be able to automate my
system the greatest automation language of
all time, which, of course, is bash,
the greatest language ever, and
rolling your own.
There's actually kind of some other
versions of this project out there.
I've seen like dot bots,
like one that it's similar, but
it's meant to be very generalized so
that everybody can have there.
So a lot, again,
a lot of configuration over convention.
Just not for me.
Second, I think there's
Yadam is another one.
Again, a lot more configuration.
It's meant to be the general solution.
I'm not trying to make a general solution
here, I'm trying to make a solution that I
like, that I can hack on,
that I can be exactly the way I want.
And I'm also not foolish.
Anytime you build something just for
yourself, it's also up to you to maintain.
So don't forget that.
You gotta judge what is
worthy of your time, and
whatever you think is worthy of your time,
make sure you do it well and
do it great and
make it exactly the way you want it.
And the things that aren't worthy
of your time, don't do it.
There's an excellent article,
his name's I think it is.
If you've heard of his name,
I think that's what it is.
He has kind of like a theory about
when should businesses write
software themselves as opposed
to using libraries and all that.
And his whole argument comes It comes
down to if it's business critical,
you should write your own,
even if there's already one available.
If it's what you do,
that's the thing you write.
And so for me,
the thing I do is I develop.
So I write my own environment.
I feel like that's the business
critical use case for me.
It's just a approach I
like to make right now.
And maybe one day I'll change that.
And question.
>> Student: I just wanna add that in front
of master's case, it's our courses player,
it's the environment.
So we wrote all of that from scratch.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah,
I think that's the way to go.
I personally think that you always build
your own Mote by having it exactly the way
you want it.
>> Student: Every time we
go back to the software,
there's not like dependencies to update.
It's just like you just add the feature.
>> ThePrimeagen: It's true.